RHIDP-11676: Orchestrator - Migrate doc for Log aggregation and Open Telemetry feature (#2027)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/extend_orchestrator-in-rhdh/proc-centralize-logs-to-eliminate-ssh-access-for-troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="centralize-logs-to-eliminate-ssh-access-for-troubleshooting_{context}"]

> = Centralize logs to eliminate SSH access for troubleshooting

Reviewer: (Can we say, "Centralize logs for workflow troubleshooting"?)

[role="_abstract"]

> Query logs from every workflow pod in your cluster using a single Grafana dashboard. Centralized logging means no more SSHing into individual pods—search by process ID, error type, or time range from your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query logs from all workflow pods in your {product} cluster using a single Grafana dashboard. Centralized logging allows you to search by process ID, error type, or time range from a browser.
```

.Prerequisites

* You have running Loki and Grafana instances in the cluster.

* You have configured workflow for file-based JSON logging.

* You have `cluster-admin` permissions.

.Procedure

> . Deploy the PLG stack using Helm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy the PLG stack by using Helm:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
# Add Grafana Helm repository
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update

# Create namespace
oc new-project sonataflow-observability

# Deploy Loki stack
helm install loki-stack grafana/loki-stack \
  --namespace sonataflow-observability \
  --set loki.persistence.enabled=true \
  --set loki.persistence.size=20Gi \
  --set promtail.config.logLevel=info \
  --set grafana.enabled=true
----
+
[NOTE]
====
For production deployments, use a custom `values.yaml` file with appropriate resource limits and security contexts.
====

> . Create a ConfigMap for the Promtail sidecar. Select the configuration that matches your logging method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a ConfigMap for the Promtail sidecar by selecting the configuration that matches your logging method:
```

> ... Scrape Container Stdout

Reviewer: (Should this by heading-style capitalization?)

+

> Use this configuration to collect logs from container stdout using Kubernetes service discovery:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this configuration to collect logs from container `stdout` by using Kubernetes service discovery:
```

kind: SonataFlow
metadata:
  name: my-workflow
  namespace: sonataflow-infra
spec:
  podTemplate:
    container:
      volumeMounts:
      - name: shared-logs
        mountPath: /var/log/sonataflow
    containers:
    - name: promtail-sidecar
      image: grafana/promtail:2.9.0
      args:
        - -config.file=/etc/promtail/config.yml
      volumeMounts:
      - name: shared-logs
        mountPath: /var/log/sonataflow
        readOnly: true
      - name: promtail-config
        mountPath: /etc/promtail
      - name: positions
        mountPath: /var/log
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 50m
          memory: 64Mi
        limits:
          cpu: 100m
          memory: 128Mi
    volumes:
    - name: shared-logs
      emptyDir:
        sizeLimit: 500Mi
    - name: promtail-config
      configMap:
        name: promtail-sidecar-config
    - name: positions
      emptyDir: {}
----
+
. Querying logs in Grafana: After deploying the stack, use the following LogQL queries in the Grafana **Explore** view:
+
.. Filter logs by process instance
+
[source,json,subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{job="sonataflow-workflows"} | json | processInstanceId="abc-123-def-456"
----

> .. Find workflow errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Find workflow errors:
```

+
[source,json,subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{job="sonataflow-workflows", workflow="onboarding"} | json | level="ERROR"
----

> .. Trace correlation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Trace correlation:
```

+
[source,json,subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{job="sonataflow-workflows"} | json | traceId="4bf92f3577b34da6a3ce929d0e0e4736"
----

> .. Process instance timeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Process instance timeline:
```

+
[source,json,subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{job="sonataflow-workflows"} | json | processInstanceId="abc-123-def-456" | line_format "{{.timestamp}} [{{.level}}] {{.message}}"
----

.Verification

. Access the Grafana **Explore** view.

. Run the following LogQL query, replacing `<instance_id>` with a valid ID:
+
[source,json,subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----
{job="sonataflow-workflows"} | json | processInstanceId="<instance_id>"
----
+

> Expected result: Grafana displays the log entries associated with the specified process instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verification step: Confirm that Grafana displays the log entries associated with the specified process instance.
```
